# Nintendo 64

**Created by:** Nintendo

**Console Generation:** Fifth generation

**Release Date:**
* JP: 06/23/1996
* NA: 09/29/1996
* BRA: 09/29/1996
* EU: 03/01/1997
* AU: 03/01/1997

**Discontinued:**
* WW: 04/30/2002

**Predecessor:**
* Super Nintendo Entertainment System (SNES)

**Successor:**
* Nintendo GameCube

**Competition:**
* PlayStation (Sony)
* 3DO (The 3DO Company)
* Atari Jaguar (Atari)
* Sega Saturn (Sega)
* PC-FX (NEC)

**Other facts:**
* Until the Nintendo Switch, it was the last console (excluding portable systems) that used cartridges.
* Cartridges could save internally
* Controllers had an accessory slot which could hold items such as
 + Memory Pak
 + Rumble Pak (which was a feature used by several games)
 + Game Boy Transfer Pak
* Had a Disk Drive accessory planned, but only a few copies of it exist. Called the 64DD
* Midway through the life of the console, an expansion for its memory was released, which expanded the memory from 4 MB of RAM to 8 MB of RAM.
 + Several games utilized this memory to improve graphics, expand gameplay, or in the case of two games, allow the games to be played due to the requirements of the system (*Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask* and *Donkey Kong 64*)

---

## Opinions and personal Experiences:
When I was young, my babysitter (who was also my neighbor) had an N64, and whenever I'd go over, we'd play it. I remember playing *the Legend of Zelda: Ocarina of Time*, and how impressed I was with the world, the music, and the gameplay. I also was terrified by *The Legend of Zelda: Majora's Mask*. Years later, that surprisingly dark and edgy (edgy for a *Zelda* game) is one of my favorite games, and has influenced my writing style and tastes. Still an odd game.

I also remember going to the camp of my dad's friend and business partner. There was an old tube TV and an N64. On rainy days, we'd all sit around and race each other in *Mario Kart 64* or *Road Rash*, or play *Goldeneye 007*, or dive right into a painting of *Super Mario 64*

During my Junior year of high school, my friends and I drove over to the Video Game Exchange in Plaistow, NH. I bought an N64 and sold a lot of my (non-functional) Atari 2600 stuff. I bought *Goldeneye 007*, *Super Mario 64*, and a few other games. We went back and all took turns trying to beat the first level, only for me to find out the following day that we were playing on the hardest difficulty.
